---
mip: "001"
title: MIP Purpose and Guidelines
status: Proposal
author: MFILDAO<mfildao@mfildao.com>
discussions-to: https://github.com/MFILDAO/MIPs/issues
created: 2023-04-10
---

## What is a MIP?

MIP stands for MFIL DAO Improvement Proposal. A MIP is a design document that provides information to the MFIL community or describes new functionality for MFIL or its processes or environment. The MIP should provide a concise technical specification of the functionality and the rationale for its adoption. MIP authors are responsible for building consensus within the community and documenting dissent.

## Core principles of MIP

Each proposal addresses a single issue, solves a specific problem, avoids multiple MIPs solving the same problem or one MIP introducing solutions for multiple problems.
Each proposal must fully describe specific details and form a complete solution.

## MIP Work Flow

The parties involved in this process are you, the editors of MIP, and the core developers of MFIL.

Before you start, check your ideas, it will save you time. Ask the MFIL community first if an idea is original to avoid wasting time on something that would be rejected based on previous research (searching the Internet doesn't always answer the question). It also helps ensure that the idea applies to the entire community, not just the author. Just because an idea sounds good to the author doesn't mean it will work for most people using MFIL. Examples of appropriate public forums to gauge interest around your MIP include the issues section of this repository and the MFIL community chat. In particular, the issues section of this repository is an excellent place to discuss your proposal with the community and start creating a more formal language around your MIP.

As an advocate, you need to write MIPs according to certain rules. A successful MIP will go through the following stages:
```
[ PROPOSAL ] -> [ STORED ] -> [APPROVED ] -> [ IMPLEMENTED ]
```
Every status change is made after full discussion or review. The meanings of these states are:
* **Proposal** -- This is the initial state of the MIP, and any newly created MIP will be in this state. At this stage, the MIP will be fully discussed, revised, corrected, and finally transformed to be more valuable and executable.
* **Stored** -- Those MIPs that are really beneficial to the development of MFIL will be included and displayed on Github. In order to ensure that the information of MIPs is more widely informed by the community, these MIPs have a discussion period of 15 calendar days (from the start of inclusion) before proceeding to the next stage (voting).
After the discussion period is over, there will be a voting period.
* **Approved** -- The MIP that voted through will be in this state. These MIPs will be pending implementation.
* **Implemented** -- An implemented MIP will be in this state.

Other special states include:
* **Rejected** -- MIPs that fail to pass the vote will be in this state.
* **Postponed** -- The delayed implementation of the MIP will be in this state.

## MIP template

At present, the creation and submission of MIPs can only be done through issues in the MIPs repository. Issues have a fixed template, and the creator can fill in the template according to the template.

## MIP editor
The current MIP editor is:

* [sghmok](https://github.com/sghmok)

## MIP Editorial Responsibilities

* Responsible for amending the initiated MIP according to the template;
* Responsible for modifying the status of the MIP according to the rules;
* Responsible for spreading MIP to the community.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

